Filters component (#1718)
Shopify/polaris-react: src/components/Filters/README.md

---
name: Filters
category: Lists and tables
keywords:
  - filters
  - filtering
  - filter control
  - resource list
  - index
  - list filter
  - table
---

# Filters

> Filters is a composite component that filters the items of a list or table.

Author: I prefer being general because it is a bit more future-proof and leaves it open for creative/flexible implementations if, for example, a consumer has built their own kind of custom list.

The way that merchants interact with filters depends on the components that you decide to incorporate. In its simplest form, filters includes a text field and different filters. What the filters are and how they are exposed to merchants is flexible.

---

## Accessibility

The filters component relies on the accessibility features of multiple other components:

- [Text field](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/forms/text-field)
- [Button](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/actions/button)
- [Popover](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/overlays/popover)
- [Sheet](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/overlays/sheet)
- [Collapsible](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/behavior/collapsible)

### Maintain accessibility with custom features

Since custom HTML can be passed to the component for additional actions, ensure that the filtering system you build is accessible as a whole.

All merchants must:

- be able to identify and understand labels for all controls
- be notified of state changes
- be able to complete all actions with the keyboard, efficiently and easily

---

## Best practices

The filters component should:

> - help reduce merchant effort by promoting the filters that are most commonly used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- help reduce merchant effort by promoting the filtering categories that are most commonly used
```

- include no more than 2 or 3 promoted filters
- consider small screen when deciding the number filters to include in a popover

> - let merchants select more than one filter from within the same category. For example, in the payment filter category, merchants can combine paid, partially paid, and unpaid

Reviewer: We don't always do this. For example, with order list filters, you can add only one filter from the Status category at a time. 

```suggestion
- In most cases, let merchants select more than one filter from within the same category. For example, from the Payment status filter category, merchants can combine the Payment paid, Payment unpaid, and Payment partially paid filters. 
```

@sarahill Do you think we should mention the rationale for when to not allow merchants to combine filters from the same category, like we do with the Status filters? If yes, what is the rationale?

Author: Yeah I’m not sure we even want to include this. I think this presumes too much about a consumers data. Specifically, it would be for a filter category that has multiple options.

- use the filters action only for an action that’s related or relevant to filtering

---

## Content guidelines

### Text field

The text field should be clearly labeled so it’s obvious to merchants what they should enter into the field.

<!-- usagelist -->

#### Do

- Filter orders

#### Don’t

- Enter text here

<!-- end -->

> ### Filter badges

Author: We use both tags and badges in this component. Badges and pills would be interchangeable (both just read-only). Tags have a `X` and are actionable.

Use the name of the filter if the purpose of the name is clear on its own. For example, when you see a filter badge that reads **Paid**, it’s intuitive that it falls under the Payment status category.

<!-- usagelist -->

#### Do

> - Paid, Unpaid

Author: Maybe we update to 

```
#### Do

- Payment paid, Payment unpaid

#### Don’t

- Payment: Paid, Unpaid

```

> - Paid, Unpaid

Reviewer: Yes, or we could change the example to continue illustrating the point that a single word can be used if the category is implied. So, we could use Fulfilled and Unfulfilled instead. 

```
#### Do

- Fulfilled, Unfulfilled

#### Don’t

- Fulfillment: Fulfilled, Unfulfilled

```

Thoughts?

> - Paid, Unpaid

Author: I like changing the example

---

## Accessibility

The filters component relies on the accessibility features of multiple other components:

- [Text field](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/forms/text-field)
- [Button](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/actions/button)
- [Popover](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/overlays/popover)
- [Sheet](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/overlays/sheet)
- [Collapsible](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/behavior/collapsible)

### Maintain accessibility with custom features

Since custom HTML can be passed to the component for additional actions, ensure that the filtering system you build is accessible as a whole.

All merchants must:

- be able to identify and understand labels for all controls
- be notified of state changes
- be able to complete all actions with the keyboard

---

## Best practices

The filters component should:

- help reduce merchant effort by promoting the filtering categories that are most commonly used
- include no more than 2 or 3 promoted filters

> - consider small screen sizes when deciding the number filters to include in a popover

Author: ```suggestion
- consider small screen sizes when deciding the interface for each filter and the total number filters to include
```

> - consider small screen sizes when deciding the interface for each filter and the total number filters to include

Author: @sadiesaurus how’s this?

Reviewer: Looks good! One tiny word change suggestion:

```suggestion
- consider small screen sizes when designing the interface for each filter and the total number filters to include
```

- let merchants select more than one filter from within the same category. For example, in the payment filter category, merchants can combine paid, partially paid, and unpaid
- use the filters action only for an action that’s related or relevant to filtering

---

## Content guidelines

### Text field

The text field should be clearly labeled so it’s obvious to merchants what they should enter into the field.

<!-- usagelist -->

#### Do

- Filter orders

#### Don’t

- Enter text here

<!-- end -->

### Filter badges

> Use the name of the filter if the purpose of the name is clear on its own. For example, when you see a filter badge that reads **Paid**, it’s intuitive that it falls under the Payment status category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the name of the filter if the purpose of the name is clear on its own. For example, when you see a filter badge that reads “Fulfilled”, it’s intuitive that it falls under the Fulfillment status category.
```

<!-- usagelist -->

#### Do

- Paid, Unpaid

#### Don’t

- Order status: Paid, Unpaid

<!-- end -->

If the filter name is ambiguous on its own, add a descriptive word related to the status. For example, **Low** doesn’t make sense out of context. Add the word “risk” so that merchants know it’s from the Risk category.

<!-- usagelist -->

#### Do

- High risk, Low risk

#### Don’t

- High, Low

<!-- end -->

Group tags from the same category together.

<!-- usagelist -->

#### Do

- (Unfulfilled, Fulfilled)

#### Don’t

- (Unfulfilled) (fulfilled)

<!-- end -->

> If all tag pills selected: truncate in the middle

Reviewer: We might want to remove this guideline, since this doesn't appear to be what we're doing with order filters? 

Live in the product:
![alt](https://screenshot.click/26-57-vy78z-49b3u.jpg)

Author: "Do as I say, not as I do" 😆

Author: Both of these are concerns with the badge and tag component. We would need to make this change in tag and then for badge it would be up to the consumer (maybe?). Not great for us to use it differently than we recommend, but also think that is okay.
